What is a zero day - it is a security flaw that has not yet been patched by the vendor and can be exploited.
is a computer-software vulnerability unknown to those who should be interested in its mitigation 

The zero day originally referred to the numbers
Zero dya Attack:

Zero day Exploit: this happen once that flaw i.e software/hardware vulnerability is exploited and attackers release malware before a developer fix the flaw.

An exploit is a piece of software, a chunk of data, or a sequence of commands that takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer software, hardware, or something electronic. Such behavior frequently includes things like gaining control of a computer system, allowing privilege escalation, or a denial-of-service attack.

A patch is a set of changes to a computer program or its supporting data designed to update, fix, or improve it. This includes fixing security vulnerabilities and other bugs, with such patches usually being called bugfixes or bug fixes. Patches are often written to improve the functionality, usability, or performance of a program.

A computer hacker is a computer expert who uses their technical knowledge to achieve a goal or overcome an obstacle, within a computerized system by non-standard means. Though the term hacker has become associated in popular culture with a security hacker – someone who utilizes their technical know-how of bugs or exploits to break into computer systems and access data which would otherwise be unavailable to them – hacking can also be utilized by legitimate figures in legal situations. For example, law enforcement agencies sometimes use hacking techniques in order to collect evidence on criminals and other malicious actors. This could include using anonymity tools to mask their identities online, posing as criminals themselves. Likewise, covert world agencies can employ hacking techniques in the legal conduct of their work. Oppositely, hacking and cyber-attacks are used extra- and illegally by law enforcement and security agencies, and employed by State actors as a weapon of both legal and illegal warfare.


virtual machine is the virtualization of a physical machine architecture
Virtualization employs the techniques to create an instance an environment.

what is ubuntu : is an open source debian based linux distribution. ubuntu is from the African zulu language and translates as humanity to others
